For this video I've created a little scene here kind of replicating this image I found out on the Internet.
So it's just a flour sack in front of some wood paneling.
I've already gone through and U-V mapped and textured the floor and the wall in the same way that we
did in previous videos.
In addition I've changed the aspect ratio of the camera here by just clicking and dragging the y axis
here just to try and get it to look somewhat like the image here.
I've also added an area light and if we come over here and change our viewport shading to rendered we
can see that we're getting the texture of the wood planks in here.
So what I'd like to do is just lay down a simple burlap texture for the bag here to do that however
I'm going to need to use the map at first because even though we're going to be painting on the 3D model
it's still in the end going to be a two dimensional image.
So I'll go ahead and isolate it on Layer 1 all selected and frame it up.
If I tab into edit mode we can see that I have not yet placed any seams here and I think what I want
to do is split it out so the same is in the back.
I know the camera is going to be here in the front.
This is just going to be a static image maybe for a magazine ad or something like that.
So I'll switch to edge mode and I think what I want to do is select this edge all the way around the
bottom here.
And then I'll press control and Mark seem up here I will select this edge right here.
And I will mark a seam there as well.
I think I'll want to split out the top piece here with control.
And Mark seem.
And lastly I think I'll split out this edge right along the back so I'll select this edge and then I'll
control click this edge and it selects all the edges in between those two press control E and Marxian.
I think one last edge that we're going to need is this one right in the middle here.
It's kind of hard to see all hit the Z key to go into wireframe and I think we'll need this one right
here to split out that top piece from the rest of the bag.
So all press control the mark seam there as well.
And now that we have our seam selected Let's go back over to the U-V editing screen layout we're seeing
through the object here.
I can turn that off by just clicking this here.
Now I'll I'll press a you and unwrap and there we go.
And we can try changing the unwrap method from angle based to conformal.
Now up here you can see it says object has non-uniform scale.
What we should probably do is tab into object mode press control a and apply our scale.
Now let's try again.
I see you and unwrap.
That's pretty good.
We'll go back to angle based just to make sure I kind of like conformal a little better.
So now that we have our U-V map done we need to create a palette or a canvas to paint on.
Because even though it will look as if we're painting on the 3D object or actually painting on the map.
So we need some sort of canvas underneath here to paint on.
So to do that I'll click new and here I'll call this flour sack.
I'll change my width and height to 2048.
Giving me twice the resolution and I'll leave the generated type at blank and the color that black and
I'll click OK.
And here we are.
This is our canvas that will be painting on.
Now down here there is a little asterisks by image and what that's telling us is that this black canvas
image has not yet been saved to the hard drive.
And unlike a program like GIMP or Photoshop these images are not saved within the main Blendr document.
So we have to save them separately to our hard drive.
So our Click image save as image and I'll put this in my textures folder.
There we go.
Now we need to create a material for this object and assign our new texture to it.
So in the note editor I'll click.
Use nodes.
This is our material on our stack here.
I'll call this flour sack again and let's go ahead and add an image note here texture image texture
and drop that here I'll connect it up.
Click open and go to my textures folder and grab that flour sack image.
Now if I change from shaded view to texture you can see here is the black image.
Now we can change from object mode to texture paint and you can see we get a brush here with our cursor.
We get our texture paint panel with our color and our brush type.
And if I click and drag on the object you can see I create a paint image directly on the object and
it's over here in the U-V image window as well.
If I click and drag over here nothing happens because I've selected view if I change from view to paint.
Now if I click and drag I get the same effect but on the U.V. map.
So now that we've set up our interface to do a little texture painting in the next video let's begin
to lay down a few colors.